CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>Console-Based Editor - Basic - 2025<br>OVERVIEW<br>In this assignment, you are going to design and develop a simple, basic console-based editor. Unlike the <br>modern, advanced editor which provides a sophisticated editing environment, utilizing the high resolution of the graphical screen together with the mouse and the keyboard to position and adjust any <br>text and figures displayed on the screen, giving us the WYSIWYG (What-You-See-Is-What-You-Get) <br>experience. <br>In the early days, lacking access to a rich graphical display and mouse, the functionality of editors was <br>limited, providing only a much simpler user interface, usually console-based. Editing was carried out <br>based on simple text commands entered via the keyboard, commands such as inserting (i) and <br>appending (a) a text string, positioning the editor cursor one character position to the left (h), one <br>character position to the right (l), one-word position forwards (w), one-word position backwards (b), and<br>so on. <br> <br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>SCOPE <br>1. Complete all the following editor commands:<br>NOTE: Refer to the section “Specific Spec” for more information on particular requirements. <br>2. Case-sensitive commands - all editor commands are case-sensitive, for example, the capital <br>letter ‘A’ does not equal the lowercase letter ‘a’. <br>3. Command types - most commands are single-letter (in lower case) commands (such as ?, $, x, ^, <br>…etc), while some are two-letter (such as dw). Most commands do not require extra input, <br>while a few do, such as insert (i) and append (a). <br>4. Command prompt (>) - The prompt is a single character string ‘>’. See the screenshots on the <br>first page. <br>5. Command Syntax - “Command[Text]”, where “Command” is one of the commands shown in <br>step 1, and “Text” applies only to commands requiring extra input such as insert (i) and append <br>(a). Note: any commands whose description includes a substring enclosed in “” brackets <br>require extra input “Text”. <br>6. Command Parsing - the user types a single command and then presses the return key to <br>continue. Parse each command string according to “Command Syntax” to ensure that the input <br>string matches EXACTLY one of the commands from step 1, including the extra input “Text” if <br>required. When invalid input is entered, simply display another prompt as illustrated in the<br>following screenshot. <br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>a. Examples of valid command input: <br>i. “$” <br>ii. “^” <br>iii. “h” <br>iv. “x” <br>v. “ahello world” <br>vi. “i hello world “ <br>b. Examples of invalid command input: <br>i. “ $” <br>ii. “ ?” <br>iii. “? “ <br>iv. “ ahello world” <br>v. “i” <br>7. Command Execution - the editor will repeatedly prompt the user to enter an editor command, <br>execute the command, and then output the updated content on the display console (except for <br>commands ‘?’ and ‘q’, see Note follows). After the updated content is displayed, the editor will <br>display a new prompt on a new line. Refer to the section “Sample Output” for more examples. <br>Note: when the help command (?) is entered, output only the help menu as shown in step 1; <br>when the quit command (‘q’) is entered, terminate the program. <br>NOTE: <br>• Keep your entire source code in ONE SINGLE file. <br>• Use only Python modules as specified in the “Permitted Modules” section. <br>• In your design stick ONLY to functions, in other words, no class objects of your own. <br>o Furthermore, the lines of code containing the sub-function(s) defined within another <br>function will be counted as part of the parent function. <br>o NOTE: Failure to adhere to the instructions outlined in the assignment handout will <br>result in a 50% reduction in the coding style. score.<br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>SPECIFIC SPEC<br>1. Editor content - the editor shows its content, if any, as a single line of text string constructed by <br>one or multiple Insert/Append commands. If the row cursor is enabled, it shows its position in a <br>color such as green. When the editor program initially starts, its content is empty. Refer to the <br>section “Sample Output” for more examples. <br>2. Row cursor - it’s used to show where the cursor is on the current row if not empty. In other <br>words, the cursor will appear on printable characters including space. The cursor is shown by <br>wrapping a character with a pair of escape character strings such as “\033[42m” and “\033[0m”. <br>For example, given a string “hello world”, to show the green cursor at the position of the letter <br>‘e’, this is the string to print: “h” + “\033[42m” + “e” + “\033[0m” + “llo world”. <br>3. Insert - the given string “Text” will be inserted to the left of the cursor and the cursor position <br>will be changed to the beginning of the “Text” string. <br>4. Append - the given string “Text” will be inserted to the right of the current cursor position and <br>the cursor position will be changed to the end of the “Text” string. <br>5. Delete word - delete all characters from the cursor position to the beginning of the next word or <br>to the end of the line. <br>6. Cursor left and right - when repositioning the cursor to the left or right, one or multiple <br>positions, and if the cursor is already at the far left or far right position, leave the cursor where it <br>is. <br>7. Undo - it’s used to reverse the change(s) made to the editor content including the row cursor <br>positions based on the most recent commands. If multiple consecutive undo commands are <br>executed, each will undo one command at a time in the reverse order that the commands were <br>originally executed. For example, given the last 2 valid commands are “ahello” followed by “a <br>world”, the first undo command will reverse the “a world”, and the second consecutive undo<br>command will reverse “ahello”. Refer to the following figure for an illustration. <br>8. Repeat - The “Repeat” command is used to re-execute the last valid command and it offers the <br>convenience of sparing the user from retyping it again. The “Repeat” command is not <br>applicable to the Undo and Help commands. For example, consider the command sequence: <br>“ahello”, “a world”, “?”, and “u”. If the command “r” is subsequently entered multiple times, <br>each Repeat command will always re-execute “ahello”. Re代 写CSC1002、Python
程序fer to step “Undo followed by Repeat” <br>for another illustration. <br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>9. Undo followed by Repeat - In this case, the “Undo” is not considered as the last command and <br>the "Repeat" command is used to target the command immediately preceding the "Undo" <br>command, not the most recent action performed. Any command entered prior to the "Undo"<br>will be re-executed upon triggering the "Repeat" command. Refer to the following figure for an <br>illustration. <br>10. b command - it moves the cursor to the beginning of the word to the left of the cursor. If the <br>cursor is within a word, the cursor will be placed at the word's first letter. Refer to the following<br>figure for an illustration. <br>11. Word - a word is defined as a sequence of consecutive characters including punctuations but not <br>white space, in other words, any group of characters without spaces is considered a single word, <br>even if it includes punctuation marks. Refer to the following figure for an illustration.<br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>ASSUMPTIONS<br>1. The goal of this assignment is to illustrate the benefits of “Problem Decomposition”, “Clean <br>Coding” and “Refactoring”, all together achieving high code readability to ease logic expansion <br>and keep high maintainability, therefore, it’s not aimed at designing a complex, general-purpose <br>editor for handling large editing content. <br>2. It’s assumed that the length of each line is kept within a reasonable length so that each line can <br>be stored directly using the standard Python ‘str’ type. The number of lines is also kept within a <br>reasonable number so that all lines can be kept in one standard Python list and the lines can be <br>efficiently updated using the standard list and str operations such as append, insert, slicing, <br>cloning, …etc. <br>3. It is assumed that the user will not input a command that consumes excessive memory and <br>leads to a buffer overflow (also called memory overflow or overrun) at runtime, such as <br>inserting a very long string like “ihello …………………………. world.” In other words, all test cases <br>executed against your program will be based on the commands from step 1 (Scope) with a <br>short“Text” string. <br>4. Each test case is designed to evaluate the functionality and correctness of your program, rather <br>than its speed, performance and memory usage. Each test case consists of multiple editing <br>commands with short “Text”. <br>5. The text editor is required to handle only regular English characters, thus additional unicode <br>support, if any, is unnecessary. <br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>STARTUP OPTIONS<br>Not applicable <br>SKILLS<br>In this assignment, you will be trained on the use of the followings: <br>• Refactoring - logic reuse or simplification based on the existing logic. <br>• Variable scope: global, local and function parameters. <br>• Coding Styles (naming convention, meaningful names, comments, doc_string, …etc) <br>• Problem Decomposition, Clean Code, Top-Down Design <br>• Functions (with parameters and return) for program structure and logic decomposition <br>• Standard objects (strings, numbers  lists) <br>• Variable Scope <br>PERMITTED MODULES<br>Only the following Python module(s) is allowed to be used: <br>• re (regular expression) <br>DELIVERABLES<br>Program source code (A1_School_StudentID.py), where School is SSE, SDS, SME, HSS, FE, LHS, MED and <br>StudentID is your 9-digit student ID. <br>For instance, a student from SME with student ID “119010001” will name the Python file as follows:<br>• A1_SME_119010001.py: <br>Ensure that your source file is saved in standard, regular UTF-8 encoding format. On the status bar of <br>Visual Studio Code, you can view the current encoding format as follows: <br>On an occasion, the encoding scheme is set to UTF-8 with BOM as follows: <br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>The presence of the Byte Order Mark (BOM) could be due to copying from websites, older version of <br>editor, file conversion from other sources, default encoding setting, and so on. <br>Confirm the encoding scheme is UTF-8 and the file name is correct, then submit the plain program file to <br>the corresponding assignment folder. A deduction of 5% will be penalized if the file is incorrectly named <br>or in wrong encoding format.<br>TIPS  HINTS<br>• Apply problem decomposition, Clean Code and Refactoring as illustrated during classes. <br>• Beware of variable scope as you might keep a few variables as global such as current editor <br>content, cursor position, undo buffer, and so on. <br>• Refer to Python website for program styles and naming conventions (PEP 8) <br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>SAMPLE OUTPUT<br> <br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br>CSC1002 – Computational Laboratory<br>MARKING CRITERIA<br>• Coding Styles – overall program structure including layout, comments, white spaces, naming <br>convention, variables, indentation, functions with appropriate parameters and return. <br>• Program Correctness – whether or the program works 100% as per Scope. <br>• User Interaction – how informative and accurate information is exchanged between your <br>program and the player. <br>• Readability counts – programs that are well structured and easy to follow using functions to <br>break down complex problems into smaller cleaner generalized functions are preferred over a <br>function embracing a complex logic with many nested conditions and branches! In other words, <br>a design with a clean architecture and high readability is the predilection for the course <br>objectives over efficiency. The logic in each function should be kept simple and short, and it <br>should be designed to perform. a single task and be generalized with parameters as needed. <br>• KISS approach – Keep It Simple and Straightforward. <br>• Balance approach – you are not required to come up with a very optimized solution. However, <br>take a balance between readability and efficiency with good use of program constructs. <br>DUE DATE<br>March 2nd, 2025, 11:59:00PM <br>ITEMS PERCENTAGE REMARKS<br>CODING STYLES 30%-40% 0% IF PROGRAM DOESN’T RUN<br>FUNCTIONALITY 60%-70% REFER TO SCOPE<br>CSC1002 – 2025 Winter By Kinley Lam<br><br><br>加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
